# Calculate biomass of Coarse Woody Debris

cwd_biomass_nfi() function estimates volume, carbon storage and carbon
dioxide storage of Coarse Woody Debris (CWD). It can estimate individual
plots, the entire study area, or specific groups within the study area
using parameters `byplot`, `plotgrp` and `treegrp`. Users can choose the
criteria for post-stratification using the `strat` parameter. Users can
specify whether to focus only on Stocked land using the `stockedland`
parameter.

## Usage

``` r
cwd_biomass_nfi(
  data,
  byplot = FALSE,
  plotgrp = NULL,
  treegrp = NULL,
  continuousplot = FALSE,
  strat = "FORTYP_SUB",
  stockedland = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  : A `list` generated by
  [`read_nfi`](https://syoung9836.github.io/knfi/reference/read_nfi.md)
  that contains 'plot' and 'cwd' data frames.

- byplot:

  : A logical flag (default FALSE); if TRUE, calculates statistics for
  each plot separately. If FALSE, calculates for the entire dataset.

- plotgrp:

  : A character vector; variables from 'plot' tables for grouping. Use
  [`c()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/c.html) to combine multiple variables.

- treegrp:

  : A character vector; variables from 'tree' tables for grouping. Use
  [`c()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/c.html) to combine multiple variables.

- continuousplot:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes only plots that
  have been measured at the exact same location across all NFI cycles
  (5th, 6th, etc.). If FALSE, includes all plots regardless of location
  changes or missing cycle measurements.

- strat:

  : A character vector; the variable used for post-stratification. In
  the National Forest Inventory of Korea, it is typically used by forest
  type.

- stockedland:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes only stocked land.
  If FALSE, includes all land types.

## Value

A `data.frame` that includes CWD biomass for plot or study areas. The
structure depends on the input parameters:

- If `byplot = TRUE`, each row represents a plot.

- If `byplot = FALSE`, each row represents the entire dataset or a group
  specified by `plotgrp` and `treegrp`

## Details

This function calculates CWD biomass using methodologies employed for
national statistics (mean, variance, standard error, relative standard
error):

- Applies national carbon emission factors to calculate CWD biomass at
  the individual tree level.

- Estimates biomass per hectare at the plot level.

- Uses the Double Sampling for Post-stratification (DSS) method to
  derive annual statistics.

- Applies the Weighted Moving Average (WMA) method to integrate annual
  statistics from the 20% of plots surveyed each year into a single time
  point.

## Note

Biomass calculation involves dividing the data into groups based on
`plotgrp` and then applying post-stratification to each group. As a
result, if the data for each group is not sufficiently large, the
relative standard error (RSE) may be high. It is important to check the
RSE and other statistical measures in the biomass results.

## References

Son, Y., Kim, R., Lee, K., Pyo, J., Kim, S., Hwang, J., Lee, S., & Park,
H. (2014). Carbon emission factors and biomass allometric equations by
species in Korea. Korea Forest Research Institute. Yim, J., Moon, G.,
Lee, M., Kang, J., Won, M., Ahn, E., & Jeon, J. (2021). 2020 Forest
inventory of Korea. Korea Forest Research Institute.

## Examples

``` r
data("nfi_donghae")

# Basic usage
cwd <- cwd_biomass_nfi(nfi_donghae, continuousplot = TRUE)

# Calculate CWD biomass grouped by administrative district and decay class
cwd_grp <- cwd_biomass_nfi(nfi_donghae, plotgrp = "SGG", treegrp = "DECAY", continuousplot = TRUE)

# Calculate CWD biomass for each plot
plot_biomass <- cwd_biomass_nfi(nfi_donghae, byplot = TRUE)
#> Warning: param 'byplot' has priority over param 'strat'
```
