# Filter National Forest Inventory Data

The `filter_nfi()` function provides hierarchical and non-hierarchical
filtering approaches for the complex structure of National Forest
Inventory data based on user-provided condition expressions
(`expr_texts`). This function enables effective filtering while
maintaining the relationship between plot data (parent data) and other
data (child data).

## Usage

``` r
filter_nfi(data, expr_texts, hier = TRUE)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  : A `list` generated by
  [`read_nfi`](https://syoung9836.github.io/knfi/reference/read_nfi.md).
  Each dataframe should have a 'SUB_PLOT' column.

- expr_texts:

  : @param expr_texts : A character vector; expressions specifying
  filtering conditions. Each expression should combine the dataframe
  name, dollar sign, and condition, with separate expressions for each
  data frame. (e.g., c("plot\$OWN_CD == '5'", "tree\$FAMILY ==
  'Pinaceae'"). Conditions must be valid R expressions.

- hier:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); indicates whether to apply
  hierarchical filtering (`TRUE`) or non-hierarchical filtering
  (`FALSE`). Hierarchical filtering ensures that connected dataframes
  are filtered based on the results of filters applied to the parent
  frame.

## Value

A `list` of dataframes.

## Details

This function parses expressions targeting specific columns in the
dataframes within the provided list.

Expression requirements:

- Each expression in `expr_texts` must start with a valid dataframe name
  in the list (e.g., "plot", "tree", "cwd") and combine the dataframe
  name, dollar sign, and condition (e.g. c("plot\$OWN_CD == '5'").

- Separate expressions must be provided for each dataframe being
  filtered (e.g. c("plot\$OWN_CD == '5'", "tree\$FAMILY == 'Pinaceae' \|
  tree\$WDY_PLNTS_TYP_CD == '1'").

Hierarchical filtering (`hier = TRUE`):

- Filters applied to plot table affect all connected child data (tree,
  CWD, stump, etc.).

- Filters applied to child data only operate within that dataframe and
  do not affect other dataframes.

- Example: If only coniferous forest subplots are selected in the plot
  table, the child data will retain only the tree, CWD, stump, etc.,
  associated with those subplots.

Non-hierarchical filtering (`hier = FALSE`):

- Filters applied to the parent dataframe (plot table) do not affect the
  child data.

- Filtering results from child data affect all other parent and child
  data.

- Example: If only certain species are selected in the tree table, the
  plot table, CWD table, stump table, etc., will be filtered based on
  the remaining subplots from this selection.

## Examples

``` r
data("nfi_donghae")

# Applying hierarchical filtering to select only privately owned forest subplots.
# Ensures all child tables' subplots match the filtered plot table's subplots.
# Expected results after filtering:
# all(nfi_donghae$tree$SUB_PLOT %in% nfi_donghae$plot$SUB_PLOT)  result: TRUE
nfi_donghae <- filter_nfi(nfi_donghae, c("plot$OWN_CD == '5'"), hier = TRUE)

# \donttest{ 
# Non-hierarchical filtering to select only privately owned forest subplots.
# Child tables remain unfiltered and may not correspond to the plot table subplots.
# Expected results after filtering:
# all(nfi_donghae$tree$SUB_PLOT %in% nfi_donghae$plot$SUB_PLOT)  result: FALSE
nfi_donghae <- filter_nfi(nfi_donghae, c("plot$OWN_CD == '5'"), hier = FALSE)

# Non-Hierarchical Filtering with only woody plants.
# Other tables remain filtered and correspond to the tree table.
# Expected results after filtering:
# all(nfi_donghae$plot$SUB_PLOT %in% nfi_donghae$tree$SUB_PLOT)  result: TRUE
nfi_donghae <- filter_nfi(nfi_donghae, c("tree$WDY_PLNTS_TYP_CD == '1'"), hier = FALSE)

# Combining multiple filters across different dataframes
nfi_donghae <- filter_nfi(nfi_donghae, 
                    c("plot$OWN_CD == '5'", 
                    "tree$FAMILY == 'Pinaceae' | tree$WDY_PLNTS_TYP_CD == '1'"))
# }
```
