# Calculates the importance values for National Forest Inventory Data

iv_nfi() function calculates the importance values of tree species based
on frequency, density and coverage. It can estimate the entire study
area or specific groups within it using the `plotgrp` parameter. It uses
the
[`importancevalue`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/BiodiversityR/man/importancevalue.html)
function from the BiodiversityR package for core calculations. Users
have flexibility in specifying data inclusion criteria and analysis
levels using parameters `frequency`, `clusterplot`, `largetreearea`,
`stockedland`, and `talltree`. These parameters determine whether to
include frequency in importance calculations, to treat cluster plots as
single plots, to include large tree survey plots, and to focus only on
Stocked land and tall trees.

## Usage

``` r
iv_nfi(
  data,
  sp = "SP",
  frequency = TRUE,
  plotgrp = NULL,
  continuousplot = FALSE,
  clusterplot = FALSE,
  largetreearea = FALSE,
  stockedland = TRUE,
  talltree = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  : A `list` generated by
  [`read_nfi`](https://syoung9836.github.io/knfi/reference/read_nfi.md)
  that contains 'plot' and 'tree' data frames.

- sp:

  :A character vector; the column name of species information (e.g.,
  "SP" for species, "GENUS" for genus-level analysis).

- frequency:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes frequency in
  importance value calculations.

- plotgrp:

  : A character vector; specifies variables from 'plot' table to use for
  grouping. Use [`c()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/c.html) to combine
  multiple variables.

- continuousplot:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes only plots that
  have been measured at the exact same location across all NFI cycles
  (5th, 6th, etc.). If FALSE, includes all plots regardless of location
  changes or missing cycle measurements.

- clusterplot:

  : A logical flag (default FALSE); if TRUE, treats each cluster plot as
  a single unit. If FALSE, calculates for each subplot separately.

- largetreearea:

  : A logical flag (default FALSE); if TRUE, includes large tree survey
  plots in the analysis. If FALSE, only uses standard tree plots.

- stockedland:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes only stocked land.
  If FALSE, includes all land types.

- talltree:

  : A logical flag (default TRUE); if TRUE, includes only tall trees. If
  FALSE, includes both trees and shrubs.

## Value

A `data.frame` that includes importance value for tree species. Each row
represents a combination of a tree species and groups specified by
plotgrp and treegrp.

## Details

The importance value (ranging from 0 to 100) is calculated as the mean
of:

1.  Relative frequency: (number of plots where a species is observed /
    total survey plots) \* 100

2.  Relative density: (total number of individuals of a species / sum of
    all species' densities) \* 100

3.  Relative coverage: (total basal area of a species / sum of all
    species' basal area) \* 100

## Note

- Consider calculating importance by genus rather than species due to
  potential incompleteness in species classification.

- Since the frequencies of each species may be identical across the
  nation, it may be desirable to exclude frequency from the importance
  calculation.

## References

Curtis, J. T. & McIntosh, R. P. (1951). An upland forest continuum in
the prairie-forest border region of Wisconsin. Ecology, 32(3), 476–496.

## See also

[`importancevalue`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/BiodiversityR/man/importancevalue.html)
for calculating the importance values.

## Examples

``` r
data("nfi_donghae")
# Calculate importance values without frequency
importance <- iv_nfi(nfi_donghae, sp = "SP", frequency = FALSE, continuousplot = TRUE)

# Calculate importance values using genus
genus_importance <- iv_nfi(nfi_donghae, sp = "GENUS", continuousplot = TRUE)
```
